---

title: Homepage
name: index
category: false
layout: default
id: homepage

---

## Welcome to the University of York design patterns library

### What is a design pattern?

When we're building the website, we can reuse a lot of the code and styling across the site. Components such as buttons, forms and tables can and should look the same to give the site a unified feel.

The design pattern library is our way of documenting the different components that we use on the site, so that existing pages and new sites can be created without losing the visual identity we've created.

### How can I use it?

**Designers** can use it to help plan any new page templates, layouts or features. If we have already implemented the thing you're looking to do, you can reuse it!

**Front-end Developers** will need to do less work to build new templates, and will have an easily-accessible library of components to look through. It saves duplication of work and makes it easy to make functional prototypes. Trouble-shooting CSS and JS should be much easier too.

**Back-end Developers**: whether you're building a new system, or adapting an existing system, you can see the exact code that needs to be generated by the system to create a page that matches the UoY's visual identity.

**CMS Users** can add content to the site knowing how all the components will be displayed. You can concentrate on getting the content just right, without worrying about layout, colours, or markup.

### How does it work?

If you really want to know, it uses [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com) to build each of these pages from individual [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) page layouts and [Handlebars templates](http://handlebarsjs.com). A custom task compiles the documentation, the stylesheets, the Javascript and all the images ready to deploy.

By using this automated process, we cut out any errors in the code, deliver production-ready and tested code, and have a quick and easy deployment process which allows us to add new changes to the website in duble-quick time.

### What happens when we want to change it?

We intend to release version 1 of the design patterns for use on the new site in the first half of 2015. Any changes to the styles will use the existing markup, so all websites and digital assets can use the same stylesheet. Once we have brought all (or, at least, most) of the websites under the new scheme, we will assess if and when a version 2 will be released.

### I've spotted a mistake, who do I tell?

Send an email to [the Digital Team](mailto:digital-marketing@york.ac.uk) letting us know what page you were looking at, what browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc.) you were using and which device you were on (desktop computer, tablet, mobile). If you don't know this information, you can [go to this page](http://uoy.yourbrowser.is/?send=true) and it will forward this information on to us

~CM